A Patient with a history of CHF who presents with shortness of breath

CC : “ Shortness of breath.”

HPI :Patient is a 68 year old male with a history of CHF who presents with SOB. He states this problem began about two weeks ago. The shortness of breath may occur at rest or with exertion. The timing is described as intermittent. His breathing is worse when laying flat. He has noticed his shortness of breath is often associated with worsening lower extremity swelling. He states he has a history of heart disease, but had a “negative” nuclear stress test approximately one year ago. 

Medications

Atenolol 25 mg PO QD
Glyburide 5 mg PO BID
Lisinopril 10 mg PO BID
Atorvastatin 20 mg PO QD

PMH : per HPI, plus osteoarthritis and dyslipidemia

ROS :Complete ROS was performed and documented and was positive for intermittent lower extremity edema and easy bruising.  For more details, please refer o the ROS questionnaire with today’s date located in the chart.

FH : Mother died in her 80s of “old age”; father at age 72 of pneumonia.  The patient has three grown children in good health.
 
SH : The patient has been married for 45 years.  He denies tobacco or alcohol abuse and continues to drive himself around.

Physical Exam

Vitals: 130/80, 88, 98.6
General appearance: NAD, conversant 
Eyes: anicteric sclerae, moist conjunctiva; no lid-lag; PERRLA
HEENT: AT/NC; oropharynx clear with MMM and no mucosal  ulcerations;auditory canals patent with pearly TMs normal hard and soft palate 
Neck: Trachea midline; FROM, supple, no thyromegaly or lymphadenopathy 
Lungs: CTA, with normal respiratory effort and no intercostal retractions
CV: RRR, no MRGs
Abdomen: Soft, non-tender; no masses or HSM
Extremities: No peripheral edema or extremity lymphadenopathy
Skin: Normal temperature, turgor and texture; no rash, ulcers or nodules
Psych: Appropriate affect, alert and oriented to person, place and time

Labs: HGBA1c 6.8; BUN 25, creatinine 0.8; LDL 88, HGB 12
Assessment

Significant shortness of breath
Well controlled HTN
Optimally controlled NIRDM
Stable dyslipidemia
Stable CAD
Plan
Will add Lasix 40 mg PO qd
Will contact his former physician to obtain records of recent stress test
Will check a CXR today to rule out pneumonia
Will order an ECHO as well to quantify his EF
Return visit next week
Will check repeat HGBA1c, CBC, and renal profile
Will also check LFTs since patient is on statin medication
Will also check spot microalbumin/creatinine